# Introduction

For most people, accessing a computer or tablet device is something they  
take for granted. We might moan at the mouse missing a target or the  
sensitivity of the touchscreen sending us somewhere we didn't mean to  
go, but fundamentally, we can get on with the job in hand. However, for  
some, use of a standard mouse or touchscreen is not straightforward and  
forms a barrier to them being able to use the device. This resource is  
all about different ways we can support children and adults to access  
screen based technology and overcome such barriers.

It is worth remembering that access methods may differ according to the  
task in hand. This is true for all of us. For example, on an iPad, you  
might use the onscreeen keyboard for a quick message or to input a web  
url, but choose to plug in an external keyboard for writing longer  
emails or documents. It may well be the case that an individual has  
different access methods for different tasks, or even for different  
times of the day, for example, if fatigue is an issue. So long as these  
different access methods are well documented and everyone understands  
what is to be used for what, this is not a problem.

This book will take a look at a range of different access methods,  
including alternatives to mice, switches, eye gaze, voice control and  
the use of touchscreens. It is rarely the case that having identified a  
suitable access method \(or methods\), the individual can just fly with  
this from day one. Instead, a period of time is likely to be needed to  
develop skills and confidence. We will therefore spend some time  
thinking about how to support the development of skills with these  
different access methods.

Before going any further, we would like to introduce you to 3-5 people  
who use alternative access methods.

Meet X dsf;ajkfld;sajfkd;sa

Meet Y fa;sljdfkasl;fjkdlsa

Meet Z fdjskal;dfjskl;afjdks

nb. need early use, advanced use, quirky use - discussed mark Rowland  
who uses foot switches for chair, eye gaze to communicate and rollerball  
for Mac accessed by foot - also discussed a littlie who might use a  
mouse alternative for simple educational tasks on clicker where the  
cognitive load is greater but can manage a toushcreen for games - Hector  
recently shared a case study video of someone who uses tobii eye gaze to  
work following a spinal injury, consider linking to it or perhaps a bit  
to obviously commercial? but would be good to have a video of someone  
who is working - these case studies are going to set the scene and need  
to draw out key themes like the importance of positioning, like choosing  
access method for task etc etc

