= Voice Control

Voice control is also known as voice recognition and speech recognition.

Voice control is one way of controlling a computer or tablet. No
physical movement is required, and the entire computer can be controlled
using just your voice. It can also be used to write, with the individual
dictating what they want to be written onscreen.

Voice control used to be something quite unusual that was only used with
expensive specialist software. However, it is now turning up in all
sorts of mainstream applications, from Siri on an iPhone to the Amazon
echo. It is available across a range of platforms, including Windows,
iOS and android.

When voice control works well and is accurate, it can be a fairly quick
way of writing / recording. \[can we expand on this – any comparative
measures around? Also decide on terminology around writing / recording\]

Voice control can be a useful access method for people with physical
disabilities and / or those with dyslexia.

*What skills do you need to use voice control?*

Using your voice to control a computer is very different to speaking to
someone in a face-to-face conversation or chatting with friends. You
need to be able to speak at a clear consistent pace, and to use a
consistent tone.

Can we say something here about intelligibility...

When it comes to writing with voice control, you need to be able to
speak aloud what you want to write. This means talking in complete
sentences. Written language is different to spoken language and so this
will take a bit of getting used to! The key is to plan what you want to
write before you say it.

*Any contraindications?*

Voice control doesn’t work for everyone. People with unintelligible or
quiet speech may find that it doesn’t recognise what they have said, and
end up with lots of random words onscreen. This can be very frustrating!

However, it is worth saying that as technology changes and improves,
voice control may be worth re-visiting in the future even if it is not
found to be useful now.
