# Glossary

== Capacitive Touchscreen This is a type of touchscreen. A capacitive  
touchscreen is activated by the electrodes in the screen recognising the  
conductive properties of an object touching it, rather than by pressure.  
This means that it can be activated by a very light touch, but also that  
it will not react at all to being touched by certain objects. In  
contrast, a resistive touchscreen requires slightly more pressure to  
activate it, but it will respond to being touched by any object.

== Dedicated Device A communication aid that is built for the purpose of  
communication. A dedicated device might also have other functions such  
as use of the internet but is originally designed to be used as a  
communication aid. An iPad for example is not a dedicated device.

Some devices are mainstream products and can be made dedicated by  
locking the software into the device. Only with specialist skills and  
knowledge could the device be unlocked.

== Digitised Speech Some AAC devices use digitised speech as their voice  
output. Digitised speech is speech that has been recorded, and is  
sometimes known as recorded speech. It is usually recorded by a  
communication partner on the device itself via a built in microphone.

== Dwell

== Environmental Control A form of electronic assistive technology which  
enables people with physical disabilities to independently access  
equipment in their environment e.g. home or hospital. It is at times  
shortened to EC.

== EC See Environmental Control

== Ergonomic mouse See Rollerball mouse

== Eyegaze Eyegaze systems can allow people with severe physical  
disabilities to access a communication aid or computer using their eyes.  
These devices have an inbuilt camera which tracks where you are looking  
and allows an individual to select something by blinking, dwelling  
\(staring\) or clicking a switch.

== iOS A mobile operating system developed by Apple Inc.

== Operating System \(OS\) Software that manages computer hardware and  
software resources and provides common services for computer programs.

== Recorded Speech See Digitised Speech

== Resistive Touchscreen This is a type of touchscreen. It is activated  
by pressure. Activating a resistive touchscreen tends to require  
slightly more pressure than a capacitive touchscreen. However, unlike a  
capacitive touchscreen, it will respond to being touched by any object.

== Rollerball mouse A mouse alternative where the unit itself remains stable and the onscreen cursor is controlled by moving a ball on the unit.

== Software to control a computer Some software can be enabled to  
pretend to be a regular mouse/keyboard so that a user can use their own  
software to control a computer. Sometimes this software is also used to  
control a second separate computer.

== Speech Type Speech may be recorded or synthesised.

== Synthesised speech The artificial production of human speech by a  
computer or communication aid. This is usually done via text to speech  
\(TTS\) software and a variety of voices are available from a number of  
suppliers.

== TTS See Text to Speech

== Text to Speech A synthesised voice speaks aloud the text that is  
inputted. Also known by its acronym TTS.

== Trackball See Rollerball mouse

