Rollerball mice? May be called trackball, ergonomic mice

• When using a standard optical mouse we are required to move the whole
mouse to move the pointer. We use many parts of our arm, from clicking
the buttons with our fingers, moving left and right with our wrist, even
using our shoulder to move the mouse forward and back. For some people,
this movement is difficult and fatiguing. • A rollerball is a type of
mouse with a rotating ball that is moved with a finger/ thumb to move
the pointer. • Roller ball mice can be useful for people have reduced
movement • Rollerball mice come in all shapes, sizes and weights to meet
the users needs • The large range of roller ball mice means that they
can suit many wrist positions and resting shaped of hands, from slight
rotation outwards (pic example of ergonomic with wrist slightly
rotated?) or with a flat palm and wrist (pic example) • They can be
designed specifically for left or right handed • The function buttons on
a roller ball mouse can vary; from left and right click only, to hold
and drag, speed adjustment and move on the x/y axis only • Some
rollerballs have switch ports • Rollerballs can be plugged in via usb or
bluetooth

What skills do you need? • Some movement and control is required in the
hand and or fingers, however this can depend on the mouse used, for
example, a finger mouse can be used with a stable wrist, and movement in
the thumb and index finger only. A mouse with a larger trackball, for
example, may require more movement of the wrist left to right • Some
general mouse skills; softeare and activiites are available to support
the larning such as my first mouse and IT mouse skills./ see skill
development section for more info

Advantages • The majority of rollerball mice are plug and play, meaining
they can be easily used on any laptop, similar to a standard mouse •
Different selection methods can be used with rollerball; from the
intergreated clicks, to switch selection, to dwell selection software on
the device • Some have wrist supports, many support he shape of your
hand • The whole mouse doesn’t need to be moved, just the ball rolled •
Doesn’t require a hard surface and can be positioned anywhere to suit
the user; on the arm of a chair, someone lap or a pillow • Some can be
customised, for example, can be programmed to work sideways and switch
the left and right click around • Rollerballs a fixed in one space and
unlike a standard mouse, you do not have to reposition when you run out
of desk space

Disadvantages • Requires a device that uses a cursor • Can take a little
practice when transitioning from a standard mouse

Detail specific kit examples Examples include Logitech Marble mouse,
n-abler rollerball, finger trackball mouse Videos : examples of shapes
and sizes, show movement required; finger mouse; table top track ball.

Further info; https://www.trackballmouse.org/ (A wesbite with
reviews?!!? USA)
